
2. Linux really emphasizes the control and power of the user. Allowing, the user to be as creative as posible and possibly equally destructive. It is open sourced, which means it's users are allowed to potentially make meaningful contributions towards linux distributions, or even create thier own distro. This is markedly different from the Windows, which serves to protect it's users from making or doing destructive things. 

3. A virtual private server is essentially computer space rented from a provider, that allows a user to remote in through a protocol and take control. Sometimes, the space can be tremendous, to really tiny. Usually, users pay per usage requests and space. Advantages include avoiding costly mistakes on personal computers. Security issues, viruses and outside threats can be limited to the scope of the virtual computer. 

4. Running programs as root on a Linux system is typically a bad idea due to the unlimitted priviledges granted when a program is ran as root. The program if malicious, can take control of the entire computer by making commands that the original user didn't attend or make. If a malicious program is ran under user priviledges, the scope of the damage can be contained to the users priviledges and files, not the entire computer itself. The program doesn't even need to be malicious in order for it to cause unnecessary harm as well. "sudo" is often used to temporarily grant users root priviledges in order to make changes to the computer. Often this comes with the ability to input a password. 